=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Slovo - В началѣ бѣ Слово

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    Mojolicious::Commands->start_app('Slovo');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a very early pre-pre-release!
L<Slovo> is a simple, installable and extensible L<Mojolicious>
L<CMS|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_content_management_system>.

=head1 INSTALL

All you need is a one-liner, it takes less than a minute.

    $ curl -L https://cpanmin.us | perl - -M https://cpan.metacpan.org -n -l ~/opt/slovo Slovo

We recommend the use of a L<Perlbrew|http://perlbrew.pl> environment.

If you already downloaded it and you have L<cpanm>.

    $ cpanm -l ~/opt/slovo Slovo-XXXX.XX.XX.tar.gz

Or even if you don't have C<cpanm>.

    tar zxf Slovo-XXXX.XX.XX.tar.gz
    cd  Slovo-XXXX.XX.XX
    perl Makefile.PL INSTALL_BASE=~/opt/slovo && make && make test && make install

=head1 USAGE

    cd /path/to/installed/slovo
    # see various options
    ./bin/slovo

=head1 CONFIGURATION, PATHS and UPGRADING

L<Slovo> is a L<Mojolicious> application which means that everything
applying to Mojolicious applies to it too. Slovo main configuration file is
in C<lib/Slovo/resourses/etc/slovo.conf>. You can use your own by setting
C<$ENV{MOJO_CONFIG}>. New routes can be described in C<routes.conf>. See
L<Mojolicious::Plugin::RoutesConfig> for details and examples.

C<$ENV{MOJO_HOME}> (where you installed Slovo) is automatically detected and
used. All paths, used in the application, then are expected to be its children.
You can add your own templates in C<$ENV{MOJO_HOME}/templates> and they will be
loaded and used with priority. You can theme your own instance of Slovo by just
copying C<$ENV{MOJO_HOME}/lib/Slovo/resources/templates> to
C<$ENV{MOJO_HOME}/templates> and modify them. You can add your own static files
to C<$ENV{MOJO_HOME}/public>. Last but not least, you can add your own classes
into C<$ENV{MOJO_HOME}/site/lib> and (why not) replace classes form Slovo.

With all the above, you can upgrade L<Slovo> by just installing new versions
over it and your files will not be touched. And of course, we know that you are
using versioning just in case anything goes wrong.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

L<Slovo> inherits all attributes from L<Mojolicious> and implements
the following new ones.

=head2 resources

  push @{$app->static->paths}, $app->resources->child('public');

Returns a L<Mojo::File> instance for path L<Slovo/resources> next to where
C<Slovo.pm> is installed.

=head2 validator

  my $validator = $app->validator;
  $app          = $app->validator(Slovo::Validator->new);

Validate values, defaults to a L<Slovo::Validator> object.

  # Add validation check
  $app->validator->add_check(foo => sub {
    my ($v, $name, $value) = @_;
    return $value ne 'foo';
  });

  # Add validation filter
  $app->validator->add_filter(quotemeta => sub {
    my ($v, $name, $value) = @_;
    return quotemeta $value;
  });

=head1 METHODS

L<Slovo> inherits all methods from L<Mojolicious> and implements
the following new ones.

=head2 load_class

A convenient wrapper with check for L<Mojo::Loader/load_class>.
Loads a class and croaks if something is wrong. This could be a helper.

=head2 startup

    my $app = Slovo->new->startup;

Starts the application, sets defaults, reads configuration file(s) and returns
the application instance.

=head1 HOOKS

Slovo adds custom code to the following hooks.

=head2 before_dispatch

On each request we check if we have logged in user and set the current user to
C<guest> if we don't. This way every part of the application (including newly
developped plugins) can count on having a current user. The user is available
as C<$c-E<gt>user>.

=head1 HELPERS

Slovo implements the following helpers.

=head2 is_user_authenticated

We replaced the implementation of this helper, provided otherwise by
L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Authentication/is_user_authenticated>. Now we check if
the user is not C<guest> instead of checking if we have a loaded user all over
the place. This was needed because we wanted to always have a default user. See
L</before_dispatch>. Now we have default user properties even if there is not
a logged in user. This will be the C<guest> user.

Once again: Now this helper returns true if the current user is not Guest, false
otherwise.

    %# in a template
    Hello <%= $c->user->{first_name} %>,
    % if($c->is_user_authenticated) {
    You can go and <%= link_to manage => url_for('under_management')%> some pages.
    % else {
    You may want to <%=link_to 'sign in' => url_for('sign_in') %>.
    % }

=head2 openapi_spec

We need to have our openapi API specification always at hand as a unified
source of truth so here it is.

    #anywhere via $app or $c, even not via a REST call
    state $columns = $c->openapi_spec($json_path);
    [
      "id",
      "pid",
      "alias",
      "title",
      "is_dir"
    ]

=head1 BUGS

Please open issues at L<https://github.com/kberov/Slovo/issues>.

=head1 SUPPORT

Please open issues at L<https://github.com/kberov/Slovo/issues>.

=head1 AUTHOR

    Красимир Беров
    CPAN ID: BEROV
    berov на cpan точка org
    http://i-can.eu

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This program is free software licensed under the Artistic License 2.0.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

=head1 TODO

Implement the site part – the one visible by the visitors of the siste, made with „Слово”.

Add simplemde-markdown-editor to the distro and use it to prepare markdown as
html in the browser.
  (https://github.com/sparksuite/simplemde-markdown-editor)
  (https://github.com/Inscryb/inscryb-markdown-editor)

Consider addding also ContentTools as the default WYSIWIG html editor
  (https://github.com/GetmeUK/ContentTools)

Consider (preferred) using Mithril as frontend framework for building UI.
  (https://github.com/MithrilJS/mithril.js)

Consider using L<DataTables|https://datatables.net/> jQuery plugin for the
administrative panel.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mojolicious>, L<Mojolicious::Guides>

